[Limited individual attention and online virality of low-quality information](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/f5dd/0d1afabba15eb63d084a3b5fc0ced187cb96.pdf)  
*Qiu, Xiaoyan; Diego Oliveira; Alireza Shirazi; Alessandro Flammini; and Filippo Menczer.* Nature.

In this paper, Xiaoyan et al. explore effects of information overload on the spread of low-quality data. To accomplish this, they construct a model of a social network in which new ideas are continually introduced. Ideas are given an objective measure of quality, and each agent has the ability to discern the quality of ideas. However, each agent has a limited attention, and will only evaluate a finite number of ideas when determining what to share. Xiaoyan et al. simulate this process and observe the effects of the introduction of new information on the spread of ideas. They find that when the rate of new information introduction is low, agents can easily discern between high-quality and low-quality ideas, and high-quality ideas become much more likely to propagate. However, when the rate of introduction if much higher, that tendency disappears, and low-quality ideas become just as likely to be spread as high-quality ideas. They also examine the effect of this spread on the diversity of ideas in the system. They find that the low information introduction rate causes low diversity of the system. However, they also find that increasing the attention limit of the agents increases resistance to low-quality information spread, allowing higher diversity while still keeping high-quality ideas present. They present their findings as having far-reaching implications in the investigation of how ideas spread on modern social networks, particularly in examining how fake facts become widespread.
