[Dynamics of organizational culture: Individual
beliefs vs. social conformity](http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article/file?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0180193&type=printable)  
*Ellinas, Christos; Neil Allan; and Anders Johannson.* PLoS ONE 12(6): e0180193.

Ellinas, Allan, and Johannson explore how organizational cultures develop, and how the effects of rank and peer pressure can create an organizational culture wherein the company as a whole appears to have coherent culture, while each individual has dissonance in their values. They construct an agent-based model in which interactions between individuals is modeled, as well as the interactions of individual behavioral traits within each individual, representing an individual's desire to achieve cognitive coherence. This is different from previous models of belief, in which each belief is modeled as an independent dimension in a vector; now, each belief is part of a network and has interactions with other beliefs. They build belief networks by mapping survey data from individuals into a network of interconnected beliefs. In the simulation, nodes will attempt to get other nodes to change their beliefs, which will happen if it increases a node's cognitive coherence, or if peer pressure or rank are enough pressure to get the node to change. They find that increasing the effect of peer pressure causes higher overall coherence in the network, but reduces the average cognitive coherence of each node. They also conclude that peer pressure has more effect on the network as a whole, while social rank has more impact on the individual. They connect their work to a broad range of study of organizational culture, highlighting organizational failures that arise as a result of dissonance in organizational culture.
