[Self-Organized Criticality in a Continuous, Nonconservative Cellular Automaton Modeling Earthquakes](https://journals.aps.org/prl/pdf/10.1103/PhysRevLett.68.1244)  
*Olami, Zeev; Hans Jacob S. Feder; and Kim Christensen.* Physical Review Letters, Vol. 68 Number 8.

Olami, Feder, and Christensen explore the applications of modeling earthquakes' occurrence through cellular automata, building on previous work that shows the power-law distribution of earthquakes. They model earthquakes through a sliding-block model consisting of two plates, one fixed and one moving, with a two-dimensional grid of blocks between them. The blocks are attached by springs to the moving plates, held by friction to the fixed plate, and attached to their neighboring blocks by springs. Each block has a maximum friction force, after which the block starts moving, reaching an equilibrium state and redistributing its force to its neighbors. They simulate this system, analyzing the probability of earthquakes occurring with a given energy, and examining the effect of varying the elasticity (i.e. how much force is distributed to other blocks when one block slides). They find that the system exhibits a power law distribution over a long range of energy conservation values, and even with the introduction of noise; they also find that the exponent of the power law distribution is dependent on the value of the elasticity parameter. They also find that the system has a state of metastability, where it's stable until it crosses a certain threshold. They believe this to be a fundamental property of modeling earthquakes.
